git.md, before:

# Git

## Setting up Git

### Setting up Git for Windows

See: <http://help.github.com/win-set-up-git/>

Remember to use Git bash instead of cmd.exe or PowerShell! It's
ridiculously simple and effective to use.

Go to your .ssh:

	cd ~/.ssh

If you want to remove and backup old keys:

	mkdir key_backup
	cd id_rsa* key_backup
	rm id_rsa*

Generate key:

	ssh-keygen -t rsa -C "email@domain.com"

- Instead of passwords, git uses SSH public key authentication
- Using SSH key without a passphrase is like storing your passwords in a .txt file (for anyone to pickup and use)
- => always use passphrases with ssh keys

Adding/changing passphrases in existing keys:

	ssh-keygen -p

Remembering passphrases. Use ssh-agent. For details and code see: <http://help.github.com/ssh-key-passphrases/>

### Minimal Configurations

It is strongly recommended to set yourself username and email to label your commits:

    git config --global user.name "Firstname Lastname"
    git config --global user.email "your_email@youremail.com"    
   
### Using PowerShell instead of Git bash

See: [Powershell.md](powershell.md)

## Using Git

### Creating new repository

    mkdir project
    cd project
    git init

### Aliases

You find them at `~/.gitconfig` in section `alias`:

    [alias]
        st = status
        hist = log --pretty=format:\"%h %ad | %s%d [%an]\" --graph --date=short

### Staging

    git add [pattern]
    git rm [pattern]

A nice shorthand for updating all currently tracked files that are either modified or deleted:

   git add -u

#### Using ignores (.gitignore)

To leave out files from git, specify them as masks in `.gitignore` files. Each directory can have its own ignore file.

Sample file:

    # Example 1: Ignoring specific file
    .DS_Store

    # Example 2: Ignore with wildcard matching
    *~
    *.swp

    # Example 3: You can also ignore stuff from subdirectories
    tmp/**/* 

Examples:

    git add README.txt
    git rm README.old

### Managing remotes

Create new remote:

    git remote add <remotename> <remoteurl>

For instance, you could have a remote with name `origin`. 

### Pushing and pulling

- Pushing = you want to update (push) your local changes to a remote repository.
- Pulling = you want to fetch (pull) remote changes to your local repository.

To initially push stuff to remote (named origin) run:

    git push -u origin master

Next time you can just do:

    git push

To pull changes from remote repository:

    git pull

Resetting stashing:

`git reset`

`git reset HEAD`

`git reset --hard HEAD`

## Checking out

### Selectively checkout only chosen files

    git checkout -- tmp/**

## Merging and Conflicts

**Auto-merge with pull**

    git pull
    git push

**Typical merge (no conflicts):**

    git fetch
    git status
    git merge origin/master
    git push

Done

**Merge with conflicts:**

    git fetch
    git status

Find and fix conflicts:

    git diff

When fixed, add:

    git add [filename]

Commit and push back:

    git commit -m "..."
    git push
    
HINT! Before push you can fix invalid commit message with amend:

    git commit --amend -m "New commit message"

## Tagging

List tags:

    git tag

List tags (wildcard search):

    git tag -l v0.1*

Creating tag:

    git tag -a v0.2 -m 'Version 0.2'

    v0.2 = tag name
    -m = add annotation

Sharing tags (they are not pushed to remote by default):

    git push --tags

## Recipes

### Updating a Github Fork From the Original Repo

From: <http://bradlyfeeley.com/2008/09/03/update-a-github-fork-from-the-original-repo/>

And a remote and a track it:
    git remote add --track master user1 git://github.com/user1/reponame.git

List remotes:
    git remote

Fetch and merge:
    git fetch user1
    git merge user1/master

Commit message:

Added stuff about branching and rebasing

git.md, after:

# Git

## Setting up Git

### Setting up Git for Windows

See: <http://help.github.com/win-set-up-git/>

Remember to use Git bash instead of cmd.exe or PowerShell! It's
ridiculously simple and effective to use.

Go to your .ssh:

	cd ~/.ssh

If you want to remove and backup old keys:

	mkdir key_backup
	cd id_rsa* key_backup
	rm id_rsa*

Generate key:

	ssh-keygen -t rsa -C "email@domain.com"

- Instead of passwords, git uses SSH public key authentication
- Using SSH key without a passphrase is like storing your passwords in a .txt file (for anyone to pickup and use)
- => always use passphrases with ssh keys

Adding/changing passphrases in existing keys:

	ssh-keygen -p

Remembering passphrases. Use ssh-agent. For details and code see: <http://help.github.com/ssh-key-passphrases/>

### Minimal Configurations

It is strongly recommended to set yourself username and email to label your commits:

    git config --global user.name "Firstname Lastname"
    git config --global user.email "your_email@youremail.com"    
   
### Using PowerShell instead of Git bash

See: [Powershell.md](powershell.md)

## Using Git

### Creating new repository

    mkdir project
    cd project
    git init

### Aliases

You find them at `~/.gitconfig` in section `alias`:

    [alias]
        st = status
        hist = log --pretty=format:\"%h %ad | %s%d [%an]\" --graph --date=short

### Staging

    git add [pattern]
    git rm [pattern]

A nice shorthand for updating all currently tracked files that are either modified or deleted:

   git add -u

#### Using ignores (.gitignore)

To leave out files from git, specify them as masks in `.gitignore` files. Each directory can have its own ignore file.

Sample file:

    # Example 1: Ignoring specific file
    .DS_Store

    # Example 2: Ignore with wildcard matching
    *~
    *.swp

    # Example 3: You can also ignore stuff from subdirectories
    tmp/**/* 

Examples:

    git add README.txt
    git rm README.old

### Managing remotes

Create new remote:

    git remote add <remotename> <remoteurl>

For instance, you could have a remote with name `origin`. 

### Pushing and pulling

- Pushing = you want to update (push) your local changes to a remote repository.
- Pulling = you want to fetch (pull) remote changes to your local repository.

To initially push stuff to remote (named origin) run:

    git push -u origin master

Next time you can just do:

    git push

To pull changes from remote repository:

    git pull

Resetting stashing:

`git reset`

`git reset HEAD`

`git reset --hard HEAD`

## Checking out

### Selectively checkout only chosen files

    git checkout -- tmp/**

## Merging and Conflicts

**Auto-merge with pull**

    git pull
    git push

**Typical merge (no conflicts):**

    git fetch
    git status
    git merge origin/master
    git push

Done

**Merge with conflicts:**

    git fetch
    git status

Find and fix conflicts:

    git diff

When fixed, add:

    git add [filename]

Commit and push back:

    git commit -m "..."
    git push
    
HINT! Before push you can fix invalid commit message with amend:

    git commit --amend -m "New commit message"

## Tagging

List tags:

    git tag

List tags (wildcard search):

    git tag -l v0.1*

Creating tag:

    git tag -a v0.2 -m 'Version 0.2'

    v0.2 = tag name
    -m = add annotation

Sharing tags (they are not pushed to remote by default):

    git push --tags

## Using Branches and Rebasing

Check your log:

    git log

check status:

    git status

Alright now, let's checkout a branch:

    git checkout -b featurebranch1

Now just commit stuff whenever you feel like it. If anything breaks, you can simply roll back or diff what you did.
At some point you are done. For instance if you made five commits see the log with:

    git log -5

If the last 4 commits have been made after branching from master, you can combine these all four with rebase as follows:

    git rebase -i HEAD~4

An editor will open displaying all your commits. You can now edit the commit message and finish the rebase. Some conventions:

- r = reword, text is changed
- f = fixup that is combine with previous comment

All done. Check your logs and push if needed.

## Recipes

### Updating a Github Fork From the Original Repo

From: <http://bradlyfeeley.com/2008/09/03/update-a-github-fork-from-the-original-repo/>

And a remote and a track it:
    git remote add --track master user1 git://github.com/user1/reponame.git

List remotes:
    git remote

Fetch and merge:
    git fetch user1
    git merge user1/master
