aws/04-ec2.md, before:

# AWS EC2

Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), run server instances in AWS

Pricing Models:

- On Demand: fixed rate by hour, no commitment
- Reserved: reserved capacity at a discount
- Spot: use AWS's excess capacity at a discount
- Dedicated Hosts: Physical EC2 servers reserved for your use

EC2 Instance types, quick summary:

- T3 (Lowest Cost, General Purpose; web servers, small databases)
- M5 (General Purpose; for application servers)
- C5 (Compute Optimized; cpu intensive apps, databases)
- ...
- All types: F, I, G, H, T, D, R, M, C, P, X, Z, A, U

## Userdata

Userdata: Scripts executed on instance create

Debugging userdata:

	less /var/log/cloud-init-output.log

## Security Groups

- **Security group** is a named set of inbound/outbound rules within a given VPC
- Several security groups can be assigned to a single EC2 instance
- Security group rules are stateful: return traffic is automatically allowed, regardless of any rules

Rule defaults:

- All inbound traffic is blocked by default
- All outbound traffic is allowed by default

## EBS, Snapshots

Ebs = Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS)

Types:

- SSD (General Purpose (gp2), Provisioned IOPS (io1))
- Magnetic (Throughput Optimized HDD (st1), Cold HDD (sc1), "Magnetic" (Standard))

EBS Change management:

- EBS block storage types and sizes can be changed on-the-fly without stopping attached instance (affects performance during resize)
- Moving EBS to another AZ: you have to create a snapshot, and create new volume from it
- EBS volumes can also be packaged as images
- When EC2 instance is killed:
  - By default, root volume is deleted
  - By default, additional volumes are persisted

Snapshots:

- Point in time copies of volumes
- Are stored in S3
- Incremental; only content delta is stored
- Stop instances before taking snapshots to ensure consistency

## AMI

AMI = Amazon Machine Image

Storage Types:

- EBS ("EBS-backed volume")
  - Persistent storage, EBS volume is persisted if instance is stopped
  - You can configure EBS volumes to persist after instance termination
- Instance Store ("Ephemeral storage")
  - Instance-stored backed EC2 instances cannot be stopped at all
  - Ephemeral: data is bound to instance lifecycle and is always lost on terminate
  - Underlying (virtualization) host fails: data is lost too
  - Can be rebooted, does not lose data

## Volume Encryption

- Root device volumes can nowadays be encrypted on initial provision
- Encryption in sanpshots can be changed by creating a snapshot copy with new encryption setting
- Only unencrypted snapshots can be shared (publicly or with other AWS accounts

## CloudWatch & CloudTrail

- CloudWatch: AWS (performance) monitoring service (=how good is performance of X)
- CloudTrail: audit tool that records user activity in AWS (=who did what)
- EC2: CloudWatch monitoring is can be optionally enabled for EC2 instances

CloudWatch can monitor:

- host level metrics (CPU, network, disk, status checks)
- Default monitoring interval: 5 minutes
- Detailed monitoring interval: 1 minute

Alarms:

- Basic idea: whenever a given metric (like CPU) is below/above a given value for n datapoints, alarm is triggered
- Alarms can trigger email notifications

Events:

- Respond to state changes with events

Logs:

- Log data storage, monitoring and aggregation

## IAM Roles

Role = Set of rules that can be attached to resources to allow / deny access to AWS resources

Much more secure way to allow access than access key / secret

Trusted entities per role:

- EC2
- Lambda

Rules:

- Allow rules
- Deny rules

## EC2 Boot Strap Scripts

Way to automate EC2 deployments after bootup (run updates, install software, bootstrap your own software, etc.)

Boot Strap Script location:

- When creating EC2 instance: Advanced Details -> User data
- Enter your custom script

## Metadata and User Data

Metadata IP address. `169.254.169.254`

- User Data location on instances: `http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data`
  - Gets current Boot Strap script
- Meta Data location on instances: `http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data`
  - Fields: local-hostname, mac, security-groups, etc.

## EFS

EFS = Amazon Elastic File System

Features:

- Elastic storage capacity, shrinks/grows automatically as filesystem is modified
- Encryption support (on transit, on rest; KMS, TLS, ...)
- Supports NFS v4 protocol (remember to allow it in security group rules)
- Scale up to petabytes
- Support for thousands of concurrent NFS connections
- Multiple AZ used for data storage
- Read After Write Consistency

## EC2 Placement Groups

Way of grouping EC2 instances in regions. Three types:

- Clustered: single AZ (low latency, high throughput, can be placed within same hardware)
- Spread: distinct hardwares (redundancy, protection from single hardware failure)
- Partitioned: distinct hardware, but allows you to place groups of EC2 instances (like spread placement, but for groups of EC2 instances)

Commit message:

add more notes on ec2 placement groups

aws/04-ec2.md, after:

# AWS EC2

Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2), run server instances in AWS

Pricing Models:

- On Demand: fixed rate by hour, no commitment
- Reserved: reserved capacity at a discount
- Spot: use AWS's excess capacity at a discount
- Dedicated Hosts: Physical EC2 servers reserved for your use

EC2 Instance types, quick summary:

- T3 (Lowest Cost, General Purpose; web servers, small databases)
- M5 (General Purpose; for application servers)
- C5 (Compute Optimized; cpu intensive apps, databases)
- ...
- All types: F, I, G, H, T, D, R, M, C, P, X, Z, A, U

## Userdata

Userdata: Scripts executed on instance create

Debugging userdata:

	less /var/log/cloud-init-output.log

## Security Groups

- **Security group** is a named set of inbound/outbound rules within a given VPC
- Several security groups can be assigned to a single EC2 instance
- Security group rules are stateful: return traffic is automatically allowed, regardless of any rules

Rule defaults:

- All inbound traffic is blocked by default
- All outbound traffic is allowed by default

## EBS, Snapshots

Ebs = Amazon Elastic Block Store (EBS)

Types:

- SSD (General Purpose (gp2), Provisioned IOPS (io1))
- Magnetic (Throughput Optimized HDD (st1), Cold HDD (sc1), "Magnetic" (Standard))

EBS Change management:

- EBS block storage types and sizes can be changed on-the-fly without stopping attached instance (affects performance during resize)
- Moving EBS to another AZ: you have to create a snapshot, and create new volume from it
- EBS volumes can also be packaged as images
- When EC2 instance is killed:
  - By default, root volume is deleted
  - By default, additional volumes are persisted

Snapshots:

- Point in time copies of volumes
- Are stored in S3
- Incremental; only content delta is stored
- Stop instances before taking snapshots to ensure consistency

## AMI

AMI = Amazon Machine Image

Storage Types:

- EBS ("EBS-backed volume")
  - Persistent storage, EBS volume is persisted if instance is stopped
  - You can configure EBS volumes to persist after instance termination
- Instance Store ("Ephemeral storage")
  - Instance-stored backed EC2 instances cannot be stopped at all
  - Ephemeral: data is bound to instance lifecycle and is always lost on terminate
  - Underlying (virtualization) host fails: data is lost too
  - Can be rebooted, does not lose data

## Volume Encryption

- Root device volumes can nowadays be encrypted on initial provision
- Encryption in sanpshots can be changed by creating a snapshot copy with new encryption setting
- Only unencrypted snapshots can be shared (publicly or with other AWS accounts

## CloudWatch & CloudTrail

- CloudWatch: AWS (performance) monitoring service (=how good is performance of X)
- CloudTrail: audit tool that records user activity in AWS (=who did what)
- EC2: CloudWatch monitoring is can be optionally enabled for EC2 instances

CloudWatch can monitor:

- host level metrics (CPU, network, disk, status checks)
- Default monitoring interval: 5 minutes
- Detailed monitoring interval: 1 minute

Alarms:

- Basic idea: whenever a given metric (like CPU) is below/above a given value for n datapoints, alarm is triggered
- Alarms can trigger email notifications

Events:

- Respond to state changes with events

Logs:

- Log data storage, monitoring and aggregation

## IAM Roles

Role = Set of rules that can be attached to resources to allow / deny access to AWS resources

Much more secure way to allow access than access key / secret

Trusted entities per role:

- EC2
- Lambda

Rules:

- Allow rules
- Deny rules

## EC2 Boot Strap Scripts

Way to automate EC2 deployments after bootup (run updates, install software, bootstrap your own software, etc.)

Boot Strap Script location:

- When creating EC2 instance: Advanced Details -> User data
- Enter your custom script

## Metadata and User Data

Metadata IP address. `169.254.169.254`

- User Data location on instances: `http://169.254.169.254/latest/user-data`
  - Gets current Boot Strap script
- Meta Data location on instances: `http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data`
  - Fields: local-hostname, mac, security-groups, etc.

## EFS

EFS = Amazon Elastic File System

Features:

- Elastic storage capacity, shrinks/grows automatically as filesystem is modified
- Encryption support (on transit, on rest; KMS, TLS, ...)
- Supports NFS v4 protocol (remember to allow it in security group rules)
- Scale up to petabytes
- Support for thousands of concurrent NFS connections
- Multiple AZ used for data storage
- Read After Write Consistency

## EC2 Placement Groups

Way of grouping EC2 instances in regions. Three types:

- Clustered: may be placed on single hardware (low latency, high throughput, can be placed within same hardware)
- Spread: distinct hardwares (redundancy, protection from single hardware failure)
- Partitioned: distinct hardware, but allows you to place groups of EC2 instances (like spread placement, but for groups of EC2 instances)

Clustered placement cannot span multiple AZ, spread and partitioned can (but must be within same region)

Only a subset of instance types can be launched in placement groups
